Welcome in this video.
We are going to be getting and join to work and hosting to work over steam in the previous video.
We just stopped a little bit short of that weren't quite able to join and host but now if I go to join
I've got a host already running on another machine.
And what we see after a little bit of time spent can Bob elating by the joint game menu is that we've
actually got another house that we discovered via steam this is very exciting stuff.
The way that we're doing this is using the lobbying system just like we did in steam.
We're going to see how we can enable the lobbying system using the unreal open source online subsystem
That's what I mean.
And if we go ahead and join that I just want to prove to you that it really is actually working takes
a little bit longer to connect because this is happening over the Internet now and over steam system.
But there we are.
There's me and there is the other me as well if I can move around.
There we go then that basically proves to you that this these are both connected the connected over
the Internet and you'll be able to do this with your testing buddy.
So you can actually go ahead and contact your testing buddy right now if you want to make sure that
they're going to be available for this lecture.
Let's dive in and see how it's done.
So you may have tried at this point to get connected with your friends over the network and actually
struggled to do so.
Now the reason for that is because by default we are using steam servers when we are using the SS rather
than steam lobbies.
Now if you remember when we used steam work the steam works example with space what we note is that
only lobbies would work in that dedicated servers were not working for us.
So we need to find a way to enable lobby's instead of thurber's in unreel the way to do this is using
a mechanism called presence in unreal.
It's a bit strange because presence is typically meant to mean stuff about whether your friends are
online currently but in the steam our SS layer it actually also means that you are going to be using
the lobby matchmaking system.
So there's two steps required to do this.
We need to enable it for the server and we need to enable it in the search which is slightly more complicated.
And then there is a third mystery step.
Are we going to be doing that through debugging.
I'm going to challenge you to figure out what that might be from the logs.
So first let's enable for the server.
So I'm going to go and open up my project and once we've got our project open we are going to go to
the puzzle platforms game instance dot ACP and we are going to be looking at our find sessions and we're
going to be looking at the server create session.
So first things first we are no longer a LAN match.
So we want to set LAN match to false.
That's the first thing that I want to do.
And then the next thing is we look at our sessions settings for a setting called something like a B
and then something that presence.
So we've got a cloud join via present's that's not the one we need.
There is another one about presence which is a user's presence though B uses presence equals true.
That's what we're going to go for.
That basically has enabled it on the server.
And if you're interested in seeing how this works then you go to create session and look at where that's
implemented so I'm going to do an F 12 in Visual Studio.
Or you can just search for create session on X code and you'll notice there is an F online session steam
that's obviously where the steam SS interface is being implemented and if we look in here then we can
go down to a section where it says create Internet or land session and you'll notice there is an if
statement that says either create lobby session or create internet session and that is hinged upon the
session settings.
DOT uses presence setting.
So that's how I figured this out.
Unfortunately I had to literally step through this code and work it out because it wasn't documented
anywhere funnily enough.
And here we go so now we're using presence in create session.
Next up we need to do it in the search as well.
So on the search is slightly more confounding in our find setting find sessions.
We have got our session search item and we can set things up on there so we can do session search arrow.
But you'll notice there is nothing in here about presence.
Or presents even so there's nothing about presence but there is a query settings object the query setting
this object is for other settings that we might not have thought of basically.
So what we're going to do is we're going to look at find sessions going to go to its definition go to
the definition in F my in session steam find sessions and in here we're going to look for a similar
if statement that might be used somewhere to do our searching.
Here is one about LAN query.
So if it's a LAN query then it'll do.
It's not a LAN query then it'll do internet session otherwise it will do a find land sessional we want
to have a look at how it's doing the internet session really.
So let's follow forward from there you can do a search for find internet session or an F 12.
I'm going to cancel that into a sense of breaking because I a feeling it already found the result it
was just double checking and looking out where it did find the result.
So is f online session steam find internet session probably in the same file so you could just do a
file search and in here we've got a similar if statement that is doing either a fine bobbi's or a fine
servers.
And what it is doing here is it's doing that query settings dot get with presence search and home and
getting out the value basically of present search from there.
Interesting.
So what this is doing is getting the result from some sort of dictionary type object in the query settings.
So if we go over to ad game instance DCP we can do query settings dot set.
Now if you want to know more about how this object works it's called an F online search settings object.
And as you can imagine it has this get and set the values and the setter How does the setter work.
Let's click on a map setter see what its what its parameters are.
One is an F name for the key name and another is the value type which is basically whatever the value
is it could be a ball it could be something else.
And then we've got this comparison type and going to show you how we use this comparison type.
Just the second in fact will open up the documentation page and show you the.
It's basically saying whether or not well we're basing building up a search query so we want to say
should it be equal to presence or should it be greater than two players or should it be less than two
players.
Things like that so we can create a comparison query within our search office the as is going to be
equals.
So let's go back into set and set this up what we want is if we follow back to the online session interface
steam we want this constant called Search presence.
So I'm going to just use search presence and hope that is there and hope that it's included and we'll
see where it is.
When I compile and then I want to set that to true and I want to have an E Online let's copy it from
the documentation that would be quicker.
E Online comparison op.
That's what I'm going to use online comparison.
OK.
Come on.
Hold on.
Equals.
And I need to move that extra.
Either I typed and put a semicolon on the end of the line.
And that should be sufficient for setting the setting which allows for search presence.
So once your build finishes we are going to be on to actually trying this out with other students.
You're going to find however that it won't work straight away.
You're going to have to use your verbose logging to see if you can figure out what settings you need
to change either in the create session or in the find session to make it so that you can see the other
person's session across the network.
So here comes a little challenge definition for you.
So you're going to be debugging with a POW.
In this lecture if you don't have a second computer of your own so go and request a testing buddy right
away go and create a post on the forum or go and see if your testing buddy from before is available.
You remember how to do the timezone stuff.
I don't have to remind you at this stage.
Now you are going to share your repo with your testing buddy.
Once you've got them so they can download it and they can compile it you're going to take it in turns
so you're going to share your repo they're going to share theirs and so on you're going to debug each
others and then you are going to investigate the logs.
Now if you are prepared to just tackle a charity like this go ahead.
If you want a little bit more information then I'm going to give you a hint in one two three okay.
The hint is that the issue is in finding the session so look really scrutinizingly at the logs for finding
the session and see if there's something strange going on there.
What do you think could be going on based on what you know about how steam works is working and the
development at finding it and so on and so forth.
It's a poser video and have a go at this challenge.
Okay welcome back.
Let's give this a shot.
So I'm going to dive in.
And first of all launch my game now on my Mac.
I've got my game running in hosting mode already.
So that's simulating you guys playing with each other over the network worry's hosting one who is joining
as I mentioned in the hint the issue is going to be on finding the session.
So that should narrow down where we need to investigate.
I'm going to open up the console and enable very verbose logging right off the bat and close the console
again.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to go into join.
I open up fire up the join game menu and that should give it enough time to try and find the game.
Let's go over to the logs and see what's going on here.
So the first thing that I notice is we've basically will start looking at the logs from where we've
started finding a session because that's where it's going to tell us the interesting stuff that's where
we've told steam go.
Go find some internet games and you can see steam as saying started searching for Internet games.
Good sign.
Online.
Asing event steam the lobbies update.
That's good it's about lobbies rather than servers.
It's doing the find a single task steam find lobbies for find session was successful.
Number of results.
1.
Okay so we've got a number of results which is one.
Why is it not showing up in our game.
That's the kind of reasoning that I make So that's the kind of reasoning you could have made in the.
Don't worry if you didn't.
This is quite hard quite a tricky skill to look at logs and figure out what could be going on.
So if again got found lobbies one initialising the search search result zero lobby.
This is the lobby idea and name and so on and so forth.
In actual fact if you look at this lobby I.D. you can find when you're hosting a similar lobby is in
some of the information that is given when you hosting.
And you would actually be able to see that this lobby I.D. doesn't match with the hosting information.
But that's a site because you can actually work this out without having noticed that particular fact.
The other thing you'll notice here is that it's saying steam failed to pass settings and a few carry
on down there's few past setting failures until eventually it says unable to pass search result for
lobby.
And then this lobby item which was mentioned at the top.
So we've got one result come back from our search and that result has basically been unable to pass
and then it's not displaying it.
Why would that be.
Why would it be failing to pass this particular session item.
Well the reason is we've got this shared app idea we're sharing it with everybody else.
So what's coming back is a lobby that is not from our game.
Why are we only getting a lobby that's not from our game.
Well for that you would have to go and investigate what options are available in our sessions search
and you would find that one of the options in session's search is actually a maximum number of results
so Mac's search results and the default for this I believe is just one search result or less perhaps
which means that you're not going to find your result you're not going to find instances of your game
you're going to find lots of other people's game.
None of your own.
So the best thing to do here is set it to a high number like 100 which means that it will get enough
results back to be able to then filter out all the games that aren't yours and present.
Present a list of games that are yours.
Obviously this issue wouldn't be an issue if we weren't sharing an app I.D. but we are.
So let's lump it and go along with that.
I'm going to go ahead and build and relaunch the game that's closed down the game while we're at it.
While it is building.
Going to close down the log and the game and wait for the bill to finish.
So once that has completed we can go over to ASH shell to launch the game again with logging as we did
before were going to have to re-enable out for both logging in the console once its launch.
So I'm going to hit the escape the key underneath escape and I'm going to re-enable the log online very
verbose scape here join just in case we need to get some more information for its joint at hasar we
have got ourselves the a instance of the game which is the one running on my other machine.
I can prove it by clicking hitting join and popping into that game.
Joining via steam you can see it's got a steam.
Interesting you are old that's not an IP address and boom I'm in the same game as the other chap and
I can prove it to you by running around as the other dude as well.
There you go.
So I'm definitely in control of both of these characters which means they were able to connect over
the Internet.
Now hopefully you were able to find that with your partner.
Don't worry if you were not.
You can always have watched on to the rest of the video and then complete the challenge making sure
that you are able to connect with your debugging partner.
Great stuff.
So we have achieved the crux of this section.
We're going to look at how we can polish it in the coming few lectures.